(critical judges, strict as any)
After a fine career, his father
and bred upon the Neva's brink,
and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
and never played a shrewder trick.
and never stir a foot away!
and now at last he saw the World.
and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
and then a stroll in Letny Park.
And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
as horses whirled him through the dust.
at first Madame gave him tuition,
a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
as well-read, though of pedant cast.
But God, how deadly dull to sample
but I'm allergic to the North...
But when the hour of youthful passion
Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
Eugene was free, and as a dresser
Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
felicitously every theme,
Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
from her Monsieur took on the child.
had only debts on which to live.
haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
He gave three balls a year, and rather
he had the talent of saluting
he really forced one to admire him --
He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
his bow was wholly unaffected.
His hair was fashionably curled,
In French Onegin had perfected
in the mazurka he was light,
it's easy, without too much fooling,
it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
let me acquaint you on the nail
made London's dandy his professor.
Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
No moralizing from this joker;
of entertaining the half-dead:
of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
of listening like a judge-supreme
Onegin was assessed by many
Onegin, my good friend, was littered
one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
or, with an epigram-surprise,
proficiency to speak and write,
promptly had nothing left to give.
reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
reluctant to exhaust the boy,
struck for Evgeny, with its play
There once I too strolled back and forth:
The World found this enough to treat
to pass for cultured in our ranks.
treated his lessons as a ploy.
Unforced, as conversation passed,
We all meandered through our schooling
where you were born as well, I think,
while serious topics were disputing,
with this the hero of my tale:
without preliminary feeler
"When will the devil come for you?"''
by will of Zeus, the high and just,
Such were a young rake's meditations --
the legatee of his relations --
``My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
but when past joking he fell sick,
Let others learn from his example!
sickroom attendance night and day
